foreign
together some content for this
presentation quite tough the main reason
being the diversity of this region
diversity of the companies that I've
seen attend these events and I think
some of the challenges and things you
face when you're a one or a two million
dollar company through 20 through 50
through a hundred and you know into the
billions like Ed was just presenting to
are all really quite different and quite
nuanced so what I've tried to do is take
a more philosophical approach today what
I've done is kind of step right up and
think about at a more philosophical
level some of the things that I think
are really important to every phase of
that journey and some more kind of if
you will principles that I would
encourage people to think about as
they're scaling their businesses
so just a little bit about
um more the last four years bit of
context so I live in Singapore this is
home for me I've been lucky enough to
enjoy this part of the world now for
five six years so didn't travel far to
get to Suntec but whilst I've been here
I've been working for a company called
zero zero is an originally an Australian
founded company and you can probably
um sorry New Zealand founded but listed
on the ASX in Australia it will be tell
for my accent and in the last four years
we've been super busy scaling this
business on a worldwide basis so we've
doubled subscribers these are some of
the half year results with double
subscribers we've doubled operating
Revenue we've tripled our annualized
monthly recurring revenue and we've
quadrupled the lifetime value so that
Journey has just spun up certainly with
the backdrop of covert a whole nother
set of kind of learnings from my
perspective as the chief strategy
officer some of which I've put into the
content that I'll talk to you about
today
um xero is an accounting and business
platform for those that you don't don't
know a SAS based business for sure
subscription-based model but focused on
smaller medium businesses so the beauty
of this event is that many of the people
in the room fall into that category so
hopefully our customers aroused or if
not they might even be partners of ours
in in the ecosystem of the business
so as I mentioned before I found it
pretty difficult because
um there was so much you want to cover
and you're sitting there thinking you
know having invested in or founded
companies myself before the zero chapter
what did I kind of want to know when I
was say doing something or building
something that was a couple of million
and the challenges I had so I'm touching
on the tip of the iceberg I will finish
with a little bit of time because if
there's anything in the room that you
want to get up and just say can you talk
to us about this or can you take us in a
completely different direction I'd love
to hear from you
so the first thing philosophically I'm
in a SAS conference but I'm going to
talk about people you can't kind of get
onto the internet these days much and
not find something about chat gbt and
the impact some of that area of tech is
having but I am obsessed with people I
really am
um and I find that even in big
businesses like the ones that I've
worked for the processors in this area
are still quite loose when you're a 20
or even a 10 or a one million dollar
business you're obviously tend not to
always have a head of HR or ahead of PX
which ironically makes it even more
important that you're super disciplined
around who you're hiring the processes
you take them through and just that
whole journey this up here is something
we put together in a business that I
work for and you can probably tell by
the
um the Spectrum down the bottom because
it applies to zero and it was about
trying to get more sophisticated and
more conscious about who we're trying to
hire and the process we wanted to step
them through and what I really wanted to
do was put this in place with my teams
and my leaders and write down to the
last person that had been recruited in
the business to know how we do things in
this area and the standards that we
wanted to apply now you'll hear of some
of these legendary processes in large
companies like the Googles and others in
the world but I think hiring people and
getting the right people and thinking
about why they fit within your culture
and what you're looking for in a
specific team is a discipline well worth
getting in place really early and it's
such an important part of your success a
lot of people say you know customers are
the most important thing and you know
that's a long long debate to have and
and I think you know in some parts right
but to be honest the people are the ones
that are going to get you the customers
whether it's actually out selling to
them or managing the accounts or
actually just working on the processes
on your website or in your app so I
obsess over this area I don't see in a
lot of companies early stage companies
I'd love to think that every founder or
CEO would actually have almost their
pipeline for customers and sales leads
but they're pipeline for talent and to
that level Obsession I track it I have a
list all the people I meet in my journey
over life I put into the same place and
actually keep track of them on LinkedIn
I keep track of what they're doing and
where they're moving and I kind of moved
them around almost like a mind map of
people that I may not have even in some
cases even met but heard exceptionally
good things about in this region and
others and I'll often come back to it
when I'm thinking about hiring for a
role or when someone comes to me and
says do you know someone that's good in
this particular domain and if it's
someone that I'm close to and I want to
help out I'll go back to that list like
you would a sales Pipeline and kind of
pour over it so I would employ you all
to kind of think about this area because
it's one of the things I think can make
a massive difference
the next one I want to talk to you about
um is and this is a particular framework
that um in a past life I worked at
Deloitte for a long time and it is
really at its core about Innovation and
differentiation I think it's really
important when you're starting and
founding a company and scaling it that
you keep coming back to what it is you
think really makes you different and
unique
I think often I I do come across a lot
of Founders that have kind of bumbled
into an idea or come up with an idea if
you will not always linked to a customer
problem or where it has it may be good
or a little bit better but they've not
spent enough time thinking consciously
about what exactly makes it different
and other other areas that they can
actually lean on or exercise that makes
makes it even more compelling and more
different
so this model up here has a view that
there's 10 ways you can be different
people often ER on on the area in the
middle of the orange the offering they
think about what's the product how's the
product different well my product has
this widget and it does this and it does
that and that's what makes it better
but there is so much wide open space and
increasingly in the last kind of 10
years in the way you configure that
product or the way it's actually
experienced that's been really just
coming to the floor certainly in the SAS
industry we see that a lot so you'll see
you know a company like xero the founder
of zero Rod Drury a kiwi he just got
annoyed about having to take a box of
receipts to his accountant every quarter
and every kind of half year and have
accounts done and he just felt it was
highly inefficient and so at the core of
the Innovation there was about how he
could drive collaboration between him as
a business owner and actually his
accountant and then from there it was
also then leaning into things like SAS
at the time when it was really just
unfolding as well as open Banking and
some other key trends around the world
so in some ways it kind of Lent into a
profit model that was more
subscription-based it lent into using a
network which was really the network of
accountants and bookkeepers and it also
led into other a couple of others in
here around brand as well like obsessing
about that kind of local Groundswell of
small businesses and the communities
they operate in and making sure that was
a core tenet of the brand that we were
building
now what you'll find with companies is
if they do one of these things it's
usually not enough to go and become you
know 100 multi-billion dollar company
it's when you get a combination of these
things and what it is you're doing that
you really get breakthrough and there's
lots and lots of examples of innovation
where you can kind of go through and
think about a brand like an Uber or an
espresso it doesn't need to be in
software and kind of think yeah it's
doing that one that one and that one and
I definitely see that as quite different
relative to its competitors or in its
industry so the second thing I'd say
people obsess over them get very
sophisticated and deliberate about them
and the second thing I'd say is make
sure you're really conscious around
what's making it different and it holds
true as well as you scale
okay this one Karma it's a great
Hinduism Buddhism concept which some of
the people in this region more than many
others will appreciate I'm a big
believer in this event to be Frank is
really about giving back it's about
sharing knowledge it's not really about
you know Hard Sell on a stage and a
number of years ago working with another
colleague of mine we came up with this
idea of we call it karma business and
the topic of this presentation was about
ecosystems and how you build them and
it's a pretty fundamental tenet of how
you do that
the model goes that everything starts
with sharing it's all about sharing if
you're selling it to someone and you
kind of turn up with a proposal and you
shove it across the table nine times out
of ten ain't gonna work if I'm honest
unless they've come to you and they've
said I need exactly this but for the
other 99 of the time it all starts with
sharing it all starts about giving when
you riff with someone and you share with
someone a customer or otherwise you
often get into the process of refining
pretty quickly oh yeah that could work
and what about this and what about that
and that refining is completely magical
that's the stuff where you get to know
them they get to know you they share a
bit more you share a bit more
eventually the time will come where
hopefully the phone picks up or an email
comes in or they hit you up and say hey
you know what you know that idea we've
been talking about can you send us a
proposal on that or we'd like to kind of
have you come out and pitch a little bit
more and from there the delivering
happens
and when you deliver when your product
delivers guess what happens usually more
sharing some of it conscious some of it
unconscious but it actually is a
virtuous cycle and a virtuous world and
that model of kind of karma business at
its core is really just saying the more
you give out
do you tend to get back and when it
comes to an ecosystem there couldn't be
a better model to think about but to be
honest it applies to wall selling and I
think whether you're a software company
or otherwise there's a lot in it in
terms of thinking about it
and years ago there was a
organization in a past life where I was
um trying to kind of get to a place
where I got the opportunity to propose
to someone and I went into the executive
and I almost like little stick figures
that you mark on the wall in a jail in a
Hollywood movie I said hey these are all
the opportunities and things we've been
sharing over the last kind of two and a
half years and we're refining lots of
them but not one opportunity have you
given me to actually propose to you
something more to be able to do for you
the executive kind of said well I've
never thought about it that way and I
can see where you're coming from okay
how about this how about that and
actually even exposing this model and
just the fact that I was trying to
approach every interaction with them as
an opportunity to share and help them
and give more back really kind of open
the door up so I've seen it work in
action in a very deliberate way
some of you will know uh his character
Gandalf the grave from the famous movie
The Lord of the Rings and the famous
light one of the famous lines in the
movie is really all about what you
decide to do with your time
um as as Gandalf briefs um Frodo one of
the other characters about the kind of
the heavy weight of the of the Ring
which is literally in The Lord of the
Rings and the reason I put it up there
is because I don't think there's
anything more important when you're a
Founder than thinking about where you're
focused and about being deliberate and
in this part of the world I think it's
particularly important concept
especially the second one
um Time After Time big business or small
being his chief strategy officer part of
the role is all about trying to help
people and Executives make decisions
there is just so many opportunities and
you get pulled into them all the time
but the best companies have that
belligerent focus on two or three things
and doing them really well and it's
talked about so much but in practice
when you go into companies small and
large it just you just see the constant
tension of being pulled in a thousand
directions so if there's another area
you you could focus on as a founder and
scaling up your business is just
thinking about all the things you've got
on your plate in the next month the next
kind of six months and the next year and
actually saying does it look like too
much and if there is only three or four
things on that page that I could
actually do and do well what what would
they be and which ones would I cull we
often in the executive boardroom would
have discussions not about the yes lists
and the focus list but of course the no
list and you'd sit there sometimes
staring at the wall struggling to put
the things up on the list of things that
you're actually saying no to which was a
Surefire check and balancer you're
probably saying yes to too many
the second part of that is being
deliberate and I think it's just
slightly different
um
in this part of the world one of the one
of the um best examples of it I can give
and I see often is organizations Gene
being sucked into other markets
um southeast Asia you know is Rich with
opportunity but in fact even calling a
conference Asia pack is for someone
that's now lived here for a while kind
of brings a rice smile to my face
because there is really no such thing
every country in this region is almost
like another planet and they're all got
their nuances and with startup and tech
companies what you often see is someone
they know or an old colleague will come
in the door and say I want you to come
and pitch on this or could you come and
sell XYZ or could you set up over here
and because in those early stages you're
kind of going where the money is and
sometimes there's an element of
desperation to kind of keep things
evolving and building you just go and
people find themselves sucked all of a
sudden into Indonesia or Malaysia or
popping up in a place like India and I
think in the early stages of the company
it's just super dangerous
especially some of those markets given
how big they are I mean even going to
the US every state in the U.S you know
is its own kind of Journey and has its
own nuanced certainly in tax and
accounting software particularly so but
I can't under
um underline this point enough that I
think being really focused but also
being super deliberate about the choices
you're making and a bit like being
focused standing back and saying okay
are we setting up a payment Gateway over
here or are we setting up an Enterprise
sales team over there or are we moving
into multilingual you know language in a
certain area because it's a very
conscious choice that we're making or
because something's actually just kind
of taking us there so I think this is a
particularly important concept
um Northstar metrics
um I think uh hopefully it's a concept
many of you would be familiar with
um when you're kind of searching on the
internet because I was thinking about it
more from the context of my experience
but when I search on the internet it
comes up about you know philosophically
what's your North Star metric in life
but I think in this instance what I'm
referring to is really the North Star
metrics of the different teams in your
business and really getting quite crisp
around what that is so a DocuSign if you
will
um
has a North star metric of you know
documents funnily enough signed but you
know what happens in tech companies is
they'll often kind of go oh my nostal
metric is a number of users or it's the
number of documents we've ingested or
it's a number of XYZ and it just gets
lost and the connection between what the
number one really most important thing
to be happening is and actually you
making sure the teams are focused on
that is quite important for them scaling
and being coming back to the previous
Point focused on the right things
there's something with like a booking
Holdings or a Airbnb you know one of
their or their North Star metric is
around the number of nights booked
um so it's not a number of users it's
not number of bookings it's actually a
number of nights booked and quite
intentionally that forces people to have
to think very carefully about the return
on investment about attracting a new
user versus actually just getting an
existing one to book a longer stay and
of course it's the latter that actually
really May well contribute more to that
North Star metric so I think thinking
through your different teams whether
it's the sales team the product team or
the company at large and forcing
yourself to try and make sure that you
don't have 10 North Star metrics because
what it'll do is it'll create all sorts
of tension from your team saying well we
need more money because we want to do
this or that and actually probably in
that mix of metrics is the number one or
two most important thing to do
um I think the other thing to mention on
this is often can get confused if if
you're big enough with things like okrs
and other measures of success but the
North Star metric should be something
that kind of lasts longitudinally a lot
longer you know DocuSign doesn't go
around changing then or Star metric
every year or three or five it's
something that has you know been really
crisp from the start and everyone in the
organization kind of focuses on and kind
of lust the test of time an okr a kpi of
course might be something you might have
for a given year or a given couple of
years I think understanding that
difference is really important
so last but not least
um
I want to put this one up because I
think in 2023 it's never been more
important it's been a crazy few years
out there with the amount of money
available but I think of the pictures
we'd see in at zero we would probably
see three four hundred easily
organizations coming through the door
with IMS and packs and information very
rarely in the last three years will you
get many of those scale-up companies
talking about profitability very rarely
will you find a page in that document
that talks about actively cash burn very
rarely will you get a page in that
document that talks about how they think
about return on where they're investing
their dollars even if it's hundreds of
thousands of dollars how they're
thinking about what return it is they're
pursuing and how they turn off and on
those Investments I think there's a real
opportunity for anyone that's in this
room or at the conference that's at that
stage of growth to lean into it like
people that are sitting inside corporate
development teams or Executives looking
to invest and and even VCS they're
thirsty for that information in fact
having a page like that in an
information memorandum that actually
says we've thought about this this is
what we think we would dial down and
here's where we've tested it to get to a
you know higher margin or a higher
degree of profitability it may not well
not be what you're doing because you've
got a journey to go on and there's
plenty of Market opportunity there but
just demonstrating that awareness is
something that I think is quite devoid
in the materials that exist out there
and investors I think are really now
more than ever kind of focused on making
sure that the founders of the company
understand if you will the DNA of how
they can dial up and dial down things to
make money
so I promised I'd leave a little bit of
time at the end
um six takeaways that I've touched on
everything from you know Karma to what
makes you different but
um embed those processes early and make
sure they're kind of hiring practices
are known to everyone and you can
nuances slightly for hiring a
salesperson to hiring a product person
be really clear on what makes you
different hopefully you're sitting there
thinking about that model before and
going okay I reckon of those one you
know of that of those 10 areas of
differentiation I would think the
company that I'm building would kind of
you know tick three or four of those and
if not it might be that something you
could be doing around your pricing that
actually builds more remote around your
product and your business
um the karma business model so I think
certainly the topic I think today was
around ecosystems and many of these
things apply to it but if there was one
in the six things that I've mentioned
that's the most important for an
ecosystem it's making more of what you
offer available it's making the tools
it's it's
opening up data it's allowing people to
build on you and with you that kind of
evangelizes that ecosystem and has other
people actually out there building and
supporting your product beyond the walls
of the people that you control in your
business
um being focused and deliberate make
sure you know what the metrics are in
your business that matter the most and
understand the commerciality of
Investments which is kind of really a
subset of knowing how to be able to
communicate that path to profit but I
think it's important as well that you
show just an ability to be able to show
where you're investing and why and what
actual return you're expecting to get
from it sounds like a basic thing but
having read 500 IMS you know a year or
had my team do that for basically the
last 20 years it's rare and some of this
stuff is just great because it stands
out a Founder that's thinking about a
business differently
so with that I will ask if there's any
questions
and say thank you sure so the question
was how do we uncover Innovative
opportunities and think about new parts
to Market
um
we spend a lot of time at conferences
like this so the team do go to not just
sastra but others around the world and
just spend time hanging out with other
Founders and companies to see what
they're doing
um we have a very large ecosystem so
from Ground Zero we realized that we
wouldn't be able to build everything
that a small business would want so
there's an ecosystem platform if you
will like an app store in xero that's a
thousand plus Partners around the world
um they're a huge source of innovation
because we share an API with them and
it's a two-way street but it allows us
to for example see a software company in
Ireland that's growing at you know a
thousand users a month and you actually
start to look over into that data and go
there's something going on there
whatever it is that they're doing is
clearly kind of meeting a market need so
we'll use the information sources like
that we spend lots of times with our
partners so the stripe team are here out
there the Amazons of the world will
spend lots of time with them in their
headquarters with them in the region
talking to them about some of the
product roadmaps and things they're
doing
and we do all the normal things inside
the business you know hackathons and
other things to kind of think about
other ways of doing things will often
bring in externals
all our M A as a company is actually
seen as an opportunity to actually learn
and share as well share back so it's
really a myriad of different things that
we're kind of trying to think about you
know in terms of being Innovative
um and spending time in Market is really
important too so we held zero holds its
own event a zero con
um and that's two to five thousand
people in australasia and the US and the
UK and so again spending time in a room
with all of those organizations
um we're lucky enough to have a customer
group that is accountants and
bookkeepers as much as it is small
businesses and so I will say the amazing
thing about that is the accountant and
bookkeeper is so close to so many
businesses it's a bit of a one-to-many
so when you're going and talking to an
accountant bookkeep you're actually
really talking to someone that may have
a thousand or 300 or 500 other customers
behind them so again those channels is
probably another way to think about it
are also fantastic sources of ideas and
innovation
foreign
[Music]